SCHOOL OF COMPUTER SCIENCES 
UNIVERSITI SAINS MALAYSIA 
ACADEMIC SESSION: 2021/2022 
 
CPT 111 – PRINCIPLES OF PROGRAMMING 
Assignment 1 Part B: Hackathon 
Recommendation System for Device Purchasing 
Your friends are surveying the market for portable device to buy for themselves. However, 
they cannot make a decision due to too much information available. Because you are more 
technical savvy, they asked for your help to find the most suitable device for them. You 
wanted to write a program to help your friends and possibly other people to choose the 
best device to buy and suggest the best three options available for them. Before you can 
write the program, they must first listed all the available devices they consider buying into a 
file.  
Given that the file contains the specifics of available devices for the program to select from, 
identify the most suitable device to buy based on a series of device specification set by your 
friends, from the most required features to the least important features. You are free to 
determine how many features to be included to determine suitable device to match 
(minimum 3). However, the program may allow flexibility to the user so they can have only 
one preference (instead of 3). You also need to obtain the order of the preferences and how 
important the features are. Based on that, the system should be able to suggest the best 
three devices from the input file list.   
You may define your own constraint in the code to make it feasible for the program to find 
the most probable devices. 
Under usual circumstances, there must be at least three devices to propose. If nothing 
match, the program MUST propose at least one possible device.  
Upon completion, allow user to select the most preferred device and using their define 
ceiling value to spend, you may provide suitable menus by the system to select additional 
accessories for the device. Use your creativity to design the accessories options. However 
the selection must not exceed the ceiling value the user has set. 
The input file is organised as follow: 
i. Model 
ii. Make 
iii. Price 
iv. Processor 
v. Processor speed 
vi. ROM size 
vii. RAM size 
viii. Main camera 
ix. Front camera 
x. Battery capacity 
All columns are separated with tab. 
Additional program specifications: 
? You must only open the file, once.  
? You must not change the content of the input file. 
? You must only close the file once. 
? You need to clearly state your assumption in your report. For example: It does not 
matter what is the making of the processor chipset (Kyro or Cortex or Mongoose), 
you determine one speed superior over the other by looking at the value of the 
speed GHz. 
The sample of input file’s content is in the attachment. 
You program must have the following features: 
i. Interactive – menu to aid user, easy to follow 
ii. Meaningful comments in the source codes 
 
Your documentation need to have: 
i. The details of the report in the cover: 
Course: CPT111  
Assignment: 1 
Report for: Hackathon Part B  
Group Number: <Your group number Please refer to the Google Spreadsheet 
in eLearning> 
Member List : <Members full name (Matric Number)> 
Lecturer’s Name: Dr Nur Hana Samsudin 
ii. Table of Content 
iii. Description of the question requirements 
a. Analysis of the problem 
b. Identify the specification of the requirements 
c. Design of the program in pseudocode or flowchart 
d. Make sure you include inputs, outputs, process and your own constraints and 
assumptions 
iv. The code 
v. Sample of cases tested on your program (use print screen with clear print) 
Restriction for this Hackathon Part B: 
• You must not add any Artificial Intelligence (AI) component. 
• You must not use array, function, pointers or any other topics which only will be 
covered after Week 7. 
• You must not use global variable. 
• You must not use vector, list, queue, or any possible data structure provided by the 
built-in C++ library.  
• You must not use <vector>, <stdio>, <list>, <linkedlist>, <queue>, <stack> and any 
other preprocessor never used before during your lab session. You may use all the 
directives in your programme’s pre-processor which you have been exposed to 
during your class and lab sessions. 
How to Submit: 
i. You need to compress/zipped all documents into one file. Make sure you have: 
a. The code in .cpp file 
b. The input file (even if it is exactly the same with the one provided) 
c. Your report in .pdf file 
d. List of the team member in .txt file with the link for your video 
 
ii. Short video presentation (must not exceed 15 mins) describing the flow of how 
you implement the program (not describing your flowcharts) and showing the 
system running using input file sample. 
iii. Upload your zipped folder in the submission link provided in the e-Learning. 
iv. Name the folder containing the files in the form of <Group Number> only. 
v. There is not specific writing font to use. If you need a relative or comparable size, 
you may use Times New Roman or Calibri with size 11 or 12 for the main 
content. You may use other font size for sub-title / sub-heading. Just be 
consistent about it. Please do it in MS Word or Open Office or Google Doc or any 
comparable document type and convert to pdf. Do not write your report in MS 
Powerpoint.  
vi. If you are using any version MS Visual Studio for your program, remember to 
a. Create a folder with suffix: _VS 
For example, if you are from Group 99, from the very beginning you are to 
create a folder Group 99_VS.  
b. Never change the location of the files, modify any unknown file during or 
after you complete. Any simplest modification can render the folder 
unreadable. 
c. Put all file input and output in within the folder you created. 
d. Zipped everything the way you program. 
vii. You must not use other IDE (because I don’t have them in my machines and 
afraid I cannot run your program). 
Hackathon Duration 
i. This question is released at 16:00 on 10th December 2021 (Friday) and is due to 
be submitted at 19:00 on 11th November 2021 (Saturday). 
ii. Submission outside e-Learning platform will not be accepted. Failure to submit 
using the platform will render you not getting any marks. 
iii. Late submission via the system will be penalised. 
Additional Notes 
i. The team allowing their program or report to be copied by another team will 
also get ‘F’ together with the group they shared their program or report with. 
ii. Please refer to rubric to know more about penalties deduction. 
iii. I will not answer your questions if you ghosted your Telegram ID. 
iv. Time extended is not a mistake. You can finish within the allocated time. In 
case you need the extra time, please use it. 
-=NHS=- 
